## **Bastion** hosts isn't best security practice for getting access to AWS VPCs

## VPCs are a regionally isolated and regionally resilient service. 
## VPC operates from all of the AZs in that Region.

## VPC allows to create **isolated network**

## Nothing is allowed in or out of a VPC without a piece of explicit configuration.

## Custom VPCs support hybrid networking which lets you to connect to other colud platforms as well as on-premises networks.

## **Default or Deidcated Tenancy**: controls whether resources created inside VPC are provisioned on shared hardware or dedicated hardware.
## 1. **Default**: can choose on a per resource basis later on when you provision resources as whether it goes on shared hardware or dedicated hardware
## 2. **Dedicated tanancy**: any resource created inside that VPC have to be on dedicated hardware - locked in

## VPC can use IPv4 private and public IPs.

## The private CIDR block is the main method of IP communication for the VPC.

## VPC is allocated one mandatory private IPv4 CIDR block. Two restrictions: 1. Min **/28** (16 IP)
2. Max **/16** (65 536 IP)

## Optional configuration: VPC can be configured to use IPv6 by assigning a /56 IPv6 CIDR to the VPC.

## IPv6 - either AWS assign it or you use addresses that you own (can't pick a block like you can with IPv4)

## IPv6 don't have the concept of private and public

## The range of IPv6 that AWS uses are all publicly route-able by default. 

## AWS VPCs have fully featured DNS. It's provided by Route 53 and inside the VPC it's available on the base IP address of tthe VPC +2

## How DNS functions in a VPC?
## 1. **enableDnsHostnames** - indicates whether instances with public IP addresses in a VPC are given public DNS host names.
## 2. **enableDnsSupport** - indicates whether DNS is enabled or disabled in VPC (if it's enabled then instances in the VPC can use the DNS IP address)

## VPC uses a /56 IPv6 range