# Transmission Control Protocol
- When making a connection using TCP, each side is sending IP packets to each other.
- IP packets have a source and destination IP and are carried across local networks and the public internet.
- layer 4 protocol which runs on top of IP.
- HTTP runs on TCP port 80, HTTPS runs on TCP port 443

# Stateful vs Stateless Firewalls
1. The client picks a temporary port (ephemeral port which value is between 1024 and 65535)
2. The client initiates a connection to the server using a well-known port number (number which is typically associeted with one specific popular applicaion or protocol)
3.  The server responds back with the actual data. The server connects back to the source IP on the request part, and it connects to the source port of the request part which is ephemeral port (**response**)
Values which uniquely identify a singel connection: **source port and source IP, destination IP and destination port**


# Stateless Firewall 
It doesn't understand the state of connections.
Two things to think about when dealing with firewall rules:
1. Each connection between a client and a server has two components, **the request and the response**
The response is always the inverse direction to the request but the direction of the request isn't always inbound and isn't always outbound. It depends on what that data is, together with your perspective.
2. Request component is always going to be to a well-known port. This always uses a random ephemeral port. Firewall is stateless

# Stateful Firewalls
Intelligent enough to identify the response for a given request. 
With a stateful firewall, you only have to allow the request or not, and the response will be allowed or not automatically.
No need for allowing the full ephemeral port range because the firewall can identify which port is being used and implicitly allow it based on it being the response to a request that you allow.